hello again you're watching Al ja's
continued coverage of Israel's war on
Gaza and in 24 days of that
war the number of Palestinians killed
has now risen to
8,36 that includes at least 3,000
children that's one child killed every
10 minutes in the occupied West Bank 121
people have been killed the Israeli
government says more than 1,400 Israelis
were killed in hamas's attack on October
the 7th and the Israeli military says
there are 200 39 captives being held in
Gaza Hamas has released video of three
of those captives it's holding in Gaza
they are heard criticizing the Israeli
Prime Minister Benin Netanyahu and they
call on the government to release
Palestinians held in Israeli prisons in
exchange for captives let's hear now
from AKA Elder who's a contributor to
heret newspaper joins us live now from
Tel Aviv uh for this perspective from
Israel and AA this video it's it's
highly emotive and
uh played by Hamas for full political
gain described by Netanyahu as cruel
psychological propaganda how is it being
received in
Israel it comes Nick in the middle of uh
a huge campaign uh right now it is
started starting next to my house there
is an objective Israeli soldier who by
the way has uh an American passport his
uh father met with uh President Biden
when he was here and uh visited also New
York and uh I think that what you see
now in the streets in Tel Aviv and
elsewhere uh is just the tip of uh the
iceberg uh just to remind you Nick in 20
2006 an Israeli soldier was abducted
gilad sh shal and until
2011 for five years there was a huge
campaign and uh we're talking about a
single Israeli soldier now just compare
it to what's happening now with women 30
little children
abducted uh the Israeli public opinion
is divided between those who believe
that Israel should pay any price and you
mentioned releasing
the uh Palestinian prisoner for Gil
Shalit Israel released 1,000 Hamas
prisoners including isma hania uh on the
other hand there are people like for
instance uh in his press conference nany
said that when he was asked about the
Gil shal deal that actually he admitted
that uh this was a mistake he should uh
review this policy again well so do you
think there's a sense that the captives
that are held in Gaza and their safety
or not perhaps how is it being factored
in by the military planners of the
ongoing
assault the uh uh message which is
coming out of the Israeli government is
uh if you would uh to put it in a slogan
is that we are going to destroy the
Hamas as if we don't have to care about
the captives and we'll do everything to
get out the capus as if we uh don't have
to destroy Kamas and uh actually Nick
it's it's a paradox because the Israeli
Army and even Netanyahu knows that uh
every day that passes with uh those
children and women in jail and while
Israel is striking both from the air and
from the ground the chances to get them
out are
getting uh little and little uh and uh
the pressure from the public opinion is
greater now as netan said in reaction to
the release of this video he said it's a
kind of uh a psychological propaganda
yes and uh promise those women that
Israel will do its best but what they
also said they asked for a ceasefire and
this is something that Netanyahu with
his
popularity uh is not able to do right
now because he promised not to stop
until he will put an end to the Hamas
and this may take months if not more
than a year right so he's already under
a lot of pressure as you've been
alluding to uh so really this just
Stacks it up even
more yeah uh and uh there are mothers
who uh are writing articles for instance
there was an article today in the AR
that they cry for their children and uh
in in the Israeli public opinion
rescuing captives let alone children and
women is sacred it's more important than
everything so these generals who on
television are trying to explain the
public opinion that uh well uh this is a
sacrifice that we have to do in order to
make sure that uh the Hamas will not do
this again and the Hamas knows that the
Israeli public opinion is very fragile
and they are doing what I expected them
to do they are using this merchandise
human merchandise in a way uh and uh
they will put more and more pressure
both on the Israeli public opinion the
United States because there are more
than 20 American citizens there are
French there are th in order to get what
they want and what they want at the
beginning was to get their prisoners
back home but now they're looking for
something else they are looking for
their own Survival and the survival of
the Hamas and this is something that Nan
politically cannot afford and AA one
more thing what what's the general sense
of public opinion the mood in Israel of
course the anger about October the 7th
runs very very very deep but what is the
overall sense do you think I imagine
it's polarized but sense about the scale
of Israeli bombardment and and the mass
deaths that we've been seeing within
Gaza
yeah Nick I'm afraid that uh the public
opinion in Israel is moving more and
more to the right and you can see it
even in uh what's happening between
Israeli Jews and Israeli Arabs the an
attack on dormitories in natania where
there are Israeli Arabs who are living
there the police is arresting Israeli
Palestinians for ins ments on social
media U it's now becoming a kind of a
zero some game it's us or there and
there is no mercy because uh if uh you
pity the Palestinians at the end you
will pay the price so it's actually a
battle on the narrative and right now
the narrative in Israel is that we are
the victims and all Hamas people all
sorry all the people of God they
supported Hamas they deserve it
unfortunately this is the mood right now
n all right we'll leave it there for the
moment do you appreciate your analysis
AA that's AA Elder a contributor to
heret newspaper joining us from Tel Aviv
thank you